# ShipSafe-TermOnto-Dataset
ShipSafe-TermOnto is a domain and terminological ontology in English on the shipboard life-saving appliances. The objective of this termontology is to organise and represent knowledge by taking into account the linguistic and conceptual dimensions of the term. The ultimate aim of the termontology is to serve as the basis for building up an electronic corpus-based bilingual termontological glossary on the shipboard life-saving appliances (English-Spanish/Spanish-English) that offers both semasiological and onomasiological access routes to the user so that specialised knowledge can be obtained in the most comprehensive, precise, and complete conceptual system scenario. It is structured into 10 conceptual sub-fields. It is a corpus-informed termontology because its data have been extracted from a specialised bilingual (English and Spanish) ad hoc macrocorpus built from scratch, the ShipSafe corpus, which contains 10 subcorpora from which sixty-one terms were extracted and validated. ShipSafe-TermOnto has been formalised and implemented in the ontology editor Protégé 5.1 and developed in OWL/RDF. ShipSafe TermOnto has been developed in the context of my Master Thesis entitled Macro-and Microstructural Design and Implementation of a Digital Termontological Glossary on Maritime Safety (English-Spanish).

Publications

Losey-León, María-Araceli (2016). Organización y representación término-ontológica del dominio de la seguridad de la navegación marítima (inglés-español) [Tesis doctoral]. Universidad de Cádiz, Cádiz, España.
Losey-León, María-Araceli (2022). Diseño macro- y microestructural e implementación de un glosario digital término-ontológico sobre seguridad marítima (inglés-español) [Trabajo de Fin de Máster]. Universidad de Córdoba, Córdoba, España.
